# Bike-Sharing-in-Boston-MA-Is-there-a-relationship-between-age-user-type-start-station-location-and-trip-duration?
Data Project exploring Boston's Bike Sharing program using Decision Tree Analysis


Bike Sharing (BLUEbikes) is a common method of transportation in the city of Boston despite numerous transportation options including Uber, Lyft, Subway and Bus. The city of Boston studies the patterns of bike usage to help with their goal of quadrupling bike use by 2030. They have looked at who uses the bikes, how long the bikes are being used for, and where the bikes are being used to determine city planning for future transportation infrastructure, money saving options, and environmental conservation. This study looked at the use of the BLUEbikes in the coldest month (January) of 2019 examining the aforementioned factors using Decision Tree Analysis in Rattle and R. A refined analysis was performed with a condensed data set, focusing on the top 5 most popular bike stations rather than all 225, which may have led to some limitations in the decision tree probabilities. However, meaningful results were obtained. It was found that customers are more likely to take longer trips, subscribers take shorter length trips. The average age was younger for customers and more evenly distributed for subscribers. People age 23 and younger were more likely to take trips from the Boylston St. at Jersey St. Station. Decision tree analysis was also validated using Tableau Analytical software.  

The results of this project/study are presented in a word document. The data analysis was conducted in the Rattle GUI as part of R software. A screenprint of the final Decision Tree is included in the results. In addition, Tableau visualizations were used to validate the findings of the decision tree analysis and are shared in the appendix. 
